pages/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now.mdx, before:

import Guide from '~/components/layout/guide'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'
import { Image } from '~/components/media'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import { GenericLink } from '~/components/text/link'
import Card from '~/components/card'
import { P } from '~/components/text/paragraph'

export const meta = {
  title: 'Create and Deploy a Next.js and Prismic Application with Now',
  description:
    'Creating a Next.js project with Prismic as a data source and deploying to Now',
  published: '2019-06-26T14:46:50.000Z',
  authors: ['raulg'],
  url: '/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now',
  image: `${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-next-prismic-with-now/deploying-next-prismic-with-now.png`,
  editUrl: 'pages/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2019-06-26T11:48:02.000Z'
}

In this guide, you will create a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) blog site from scratch that will show you how to; source the content you have in a Prismic repository, create pages programmatically, handle dynamic routing, and deploy it with [Now](/docs/v2).

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) from [ZEIT](https://zeit.co) is a **production-ready framework** that helps you create fast React applications. [Prismic](https://prismic.io/) is a Headless Content Management System that **helps developers and content managers to work on websites and apps together**.

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-next-prismic-with-now/deploying-next-prismic-with-now.png`}
  width={2048 / 2.75}
  height={1170 / 2.75}
  oversize
/>

## Step 1: Set Up Your Prismic + Next.js App

For this guide, you will start with **installing a boilerplate Next.js project that uses Prismic**. Start with installing the [Prismic CLI package](https://github.com/prismicio/prismic-cli), followed by quick-starting your project from the provided git repo.

This process clones the codebase and guides you through setting up the repository that will be used as your blog's data source.

<TerminalInput>
  yarn global add prismic-cli 
</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Installing the <InlineCode>prismic-cli</InlineCode> command line tool.</Caption>

<TerminalInput>
  prismic theme https://github.com/raulg/prismic-next-blog
</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Quickstarting your Prismic boilerplate project.</Caption>

Navigate to the folder you have created and inspect the files and folders that are included in this barebones project. You will find the following:

- `/custom_types`, which details the data modeling for your Prismic repository, in this case the **blog_home** and **post** documents
- `package.json`, which includes the Next.js and React dependencies, as well as scripts to [develop](/docs/v2/development/basics/) and [deploy](/docs/v2/deployments/basics/) for Now
- `next.config.js` and `now.json` that set this up as a serverless Now project. You can find more details about this configuration in its [dedicated guide](https://zeit.co/guides/deploying-nextjs-with-now/)

You can run your application with the `yarn dev` command, and check at `localhost:3000` that the app is running correctly.

You will notice that for now it is only a simple index page, as defined in `/pages`. This takes care of getting your simple [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) app started, you can now begin setting up your Prismic repository.

Continue by installing the required packages to integrate your Next.js web application with Prismic.

<TerminalInput>yarn add prismic-javascript prismic-reactjs</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Adding the <InlineCode>prismic-javascript</InlineCode> and <InlineCode>prismic-reactjs</InlineCode> dependencies to fetch and render documents.</Caption>

If you open the `prismic-configuration.js` file, you might notice that the API endpoint has **already been set up according to the repository you created during the installation process**.

Confirm the name of the repository so you can access the Prismic dashboard to manage your content. Move into the Prismic repository that you started earlier, and [create some content](https://user-guides.prismic.io/browse-documents-and-edit-content/editing-content/create-a-new-document) that you will use in your project.

Just a simple blog home page and a couple of posts will do for now, **but you can get as creative as you wish to**.

<Note>
  In this case, you will be using a rich text field that will serve as the body
  of the post, for the sake of simplicity. Normally, the body of a document
  would be a group of{' '}
  <GenericLink href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices">
    Slices
  </GenericLink>{' '}
  to allow more flexibility when creating your posts.
</Note>

## Step 2: Sourcing Data From Prismic

With the relevant Prismic dependencies installed, you can start building a page that will serve as a blog index. `/pages/index.js` will have a component that will get the **blog_home** document with `getInitialProps` and render it's Rich Text fields.

```js
import React from 'react'
import Prismic from 'prismic-javascript'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'

const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')

  return { home }
}

export default BlogHome
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file fetching the author
  data from <P.B>blog_home</P.B>.
</Caption>

The `home` prop now contains the [document object](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/the-document-object) received from the API, including the data fields you set earlier for the blog author's image, title, and short description.

<Note>
  If you run the app now with <InlineCode>yarn dev</InlineCode>, you will see
  this information displayed at{' '}
  <GenericLink href="localhost:3000">
    <InlineCode>localhost:3000</InlineCode>
  </GenericLink>
  .
</Note>

There are many ways to query the API to get the data you require. For now, use a [Predicate](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/query-the-api/query-predicates-reference) to get all the **post** documents you have created and sort them in descending order based on their assigned date.

```js
const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map(post => (
        <li key={post.uid}>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')
  const posts = await client.query(
    Prismic.Predicates.at('document.type', 'post'),
    { orderings: '[my.post.date desc]' }
  )

  return { home, posts }
}
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file that displays a list
  of all blog posts.
</Caption>

The `posts` prop contains an array of all the blog posts in your repository, arranged in descending chronological order. The **title** field of each item is rendered in an unordered list.

**That's it for a minimalist blog home page**. Let's move on to rendering the pages for each of your blog posts.

## Step 3: Rendering Dynamic Posts

To create a page for each blog post document, you will set it up so that the page is generated dynamically using the unique individual slug (UID) that identifies each **post** document.

This approach is very similar to that used with the home page, but the API query in `getInitialProps` will instead fetch the document depending on its UID.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'
import Link from 'next/link'

const Post = props => (
  <div>
    <Link href="/">
      <a>back to blog list</a>
    </Link>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.title)}
    <span>{Date(props.post.data.date).toString()}</span>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.post_body)}
  </div>
)

Post.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const { uid } = context.query
  const post = await client.getByUID('post', uid)

  return { post }
}

export default Post
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/post.js</InlineCode> file that generates pages
  depending on the <P.B>UID</P.B> provided by the context.
</Caption>

Your blog posts are rendered, but there's no way to test them out since there's no easy way to navigate to each one currently. For that, you'll have to setup the [custom routing](/docs/v2/deployments/routes/) in `now.json` with serverless in mind.

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "next.config.js", "use": "@now/next" }],
  "routes": [{ "src": "/blog/(?<uid>[^/]+)$", "dest": "/post?uid=$uid" }]
}
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file with build and routing
  configuration.
</Caption>

The above [`now.json` file](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/) achieves three things:

- [`version`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#version) ensures you are using the latest [Now 2.0 platform](/docs/v2/platform/overview) version
- [`builds`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#builds) instructs Now to use the [`@now/next`](/docs/v2/deployments/official-builders/next-js-now-next/) [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) to build your app
- [`routes`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#routes) routes slug based requests to the correct location with the `id` parameter

With this, you can access each post directly with their **UID slug**. For example, a blog post with the `best-foot-forward` will be accessible in your local environment after you relaunch it with `yarn dev` at the address `http://localhost:3000/blog/best-foot-forward`.

## Step 4: Build Client Side Navigation Links

Now that the pages for your blog post documents are accessible, you can modify the index page so that the list of titles actually links to each of the posts. To do this, it's best to use the [`<Link>`](https://nextjs.org/docs#with-link) component, included with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), to provide client-side navigation without a page refresh.

The `<Link>` component requires **two main props for navigation**: `href`, which will be the path used to route to the page, and `as`, which will be the path as rendered in the browser. To aid in creating these two different paths, you can use the `linkResolver` and `hrefResolver` helper functions, defined within `prismic-configuration.js`.

```js
// Manages links to internal Prismic documents
linkResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/blog/${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
},
// Additional helper function for Next/Link components
hrefResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/post?uid=${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
}
```

<Caption>
  Helper functions in the <InlineCode>prismic-configuration.js</InlineCode>{' '}
  file.
</Caption>

These helper functions generate both the aesthetic path with `linkResolver`; and the functional path that will correctly pass the UID with `hrefResolver`.

These will need to be modified along with your project **as your routing expands**, so that they always reflect the routing you have set up in your `now.json` file.

You can adjust the unordered list in `/pages/index.js` so that it wraps a `<Link>` around the title, as well as adding the `Date` value for each of the blog posts.

```diff
+ import { client, linkResolver, hrefResolver } from '../prismic-configuration'
+ import Link from 'next/link'

const BlogHome = (props) => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt='avatar image' />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map((post) => (
        <li key={post.uid}>
-         {RichText.render(post.data.title)}
+         <Link href={hrefResolver(post)} as={linkResolver(post)} passHref prefetch>
+           <a>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</a>
+         </Link>
+         <span>{Date(post.data.date).toString()}</span>
        </li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)
```

<Caption>
  Modifying the <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file to add the blog
  posts link list.
</Caption>

You can now refresh your site at [`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000/) and test out the navigation for your blog. It's quite minimalistic, but you've built it from scratch.

## Step 5: Deploying With Now

So far, you have been using `yarn dev` to develop locally, but what good is a blog if you don't show it off to the world. It's time to deploy it to the Now platform and enjoy your serverless web application.

Edit the `now.json` configuration file to include a project name. This is optional, but it helps to have human-readable addresses when sharing your project with the public.

```json
{
  ...
  "name": "mini-blog",
}
```

<Caption>
  Adding a <InlineCode>name</InlineCode> property to your{' '}
  <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file.
</Caption>

Since the `next.config.js` file is already set-up as targeting for serverless, your project is **ready to be deployed with Now**.

You can run `yarn deploy` to launch the [Now CLI](/download) which will quickly setup and deploy your project online. Once it's done, you can check the generated url.

Your minimalistic blog using Prismic and built with Next.js is now online on Now and **can be shared instantly** using the URL given by the Now CLI.

## Bonus: Serverless Pre-Rendering

For increased performance, you can take advantage of the [Serverless Pre-rendering](https://zeit.co/blog/serverless-pre-rendering) feature to serve your dynamic content with static speeds.

All you need to do is add a couple of lines to your `index.js` and `post.js` files in the `getInitialProps` method.

```js
if (context.res) {
  context.res.setHeader('Cache-Control', 's-maxage=1, stale-while-revalidate')
}
```

<Caption>
  Enabling SPR in your <InlineCode>BlogHome.getInitialProps</InlineCode> and{' '}
  <InlineCode>Post.getInitialProps</InlineCode> functions.
</Caption>

Deploy this new version to Now with `yarn deploy`. You minimal blog is now being served even faster thanks to the [Now Smart CDN](/smart-cdn). You can try adding or modifying content in your Prismic repository and it **will be served instantaneously** on your now public site.

This small guide goes over the basics of setting up a Prismic + Next.js project. You can build much more complex web applications that will be served at blazing fast speeds for users all around the globe by reading the [resources below](#resources).

## Resources

For more information, consult the documentation about working with [Next and Prismic](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/getting-started/prismic-nextjs).

<Card 
  title="Complete Next.js Blog Project" 
  href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/examples/next-js-samples/sample-blog-with-api-based-cms-in-nextjs"
>
  Fully featured example of the blog project that includes previews, slices and more.
</Card>
<Card
  title="Multi-Page Site Project"
  href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/examples/next-js-samples/sample-multi-page-site-with-navigation-in-nextjs"
>
  Another example project for a more complicated site with multiple pages built using slice components.
</Card>
<Card title="Rendering Slices" href="https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/slices">
  Documentation on how to render Slices which will serve as the body of Prismic pages.
</Card>

export default ({ children }) => <Guide meta={meta}>{children}</Guide>

Commit message:

Small changes for clarity
- Add `export default BlogHome` line to prevent issues when copypasting committed.
- Edits OGImage to better reflect Prismic's role.
- Replaces some instances of `data` for `content` for the same reason.

pages/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now.mdx, after:

import Guide from '~/components/layout/guide'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'
import { Image } from '~/components/media'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import { GenericLink } from '~/components/text/link'
import Card from '~/components/card'
import { P } from '~/components/text/paragraph'

export const meta = {
  title: 'Create and Deploy a Next.js and Prismic Application with Now',
  description:
    'Creating a Next.js project with Prismic as a content source and deploying to Now',
  published: '2019-06-26T14:46:50.000Z',
  authors: ['raulg'],
  url: '/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now',
  image: `${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-next-prismic-with-now/deploying-next-prismic-with-now.png`,
  editUrl: 'pages/guides/deploying-next-and-prismic-with-now.mdx',
  lastEdited: '2019-07-02T12:44:31.000Z'
}

In this guide, you will create a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) blog site from scratch that will show you how to; source the content you have in a Prismic repository, create pages programmatically, handle dynamic routing, and deploy it with [Now](/docs/v2).

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) from [ZEIT](https://zeit.co) is a **production-ready framework** that helps you create fast React applications. [Prismic](https://prismic.io/) is a Headless Content Management System that **helps developers and content managers to work on websites and apps together**.

<Image
  src={`${
    process.env.ASSETS
  }/guides/deploying-next-prismic-with-now/deploying-next-prismic-with-now.png`}
  width={2048 / 2.75}
  height={1170 / 2.75}
  oversize
/>

## Step 1: Set Up Your Prismic + Next.js App

For this guide, you will start with **installing a boilerplate Next.js project that uses Prismic**. Start with installing the [Prismic CLI package](https://github.com/prismicio/prismic-cli), followed by quick-starting your project from the provided git repo.

This process clones the codebase and guides you through setting up the repository that will be used as your blog's content source.

<TerminalInput>
  yarn global add prismic-cli 
</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Installing the <InlineCode>prismic-cli</InlineCode> command line tool.</Caption>

<TerminalInput>
  prismic theme https://github.com/raulg/prismic-next-blog
</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Quickstarting your Prismic boilerplate project.</Caption>

Navigate to the folder you have created and inspect the files and folders that are included in this barebones project. You will find the following:

- `/custom_types`, which details the data modeling for your Prismic repository, in this case the **blog_home** and **post** documents
- `package.json`, which includes the Next.js and React dependencies, as well as scripts to [develop](/docs/v2/development/basics/) and [deploy](/docs/v2/deployments/basics/) for Now
- `next.config.js` and `now.json` that set this up as a serverless Now project. You can find more details about this configuration in its [dedicated guide](https://zeit.co/guides/deploying-nextjs-with-now/)

You can run your application with the `yarn dev` command, and check at `localhost:3000` that the app is running correctly.

You will notice that for now it is only a simple index page, as defined in `/pages`. This takes care of getting your simple [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) app started, you can now begin setting up your Prismic repository.

Continue by installing the required packages to integrate your Next.js web application with Prismic.

<TerminalInput>yarn add prismic-javascript prismic-reactjs</TerminalInput>
<Caption>Adding the <InlineCode>prismic-javascript</InlineCode> and <InlineCode>prismic-reactjs</InlineCode> dependencies to fetch and render documents.</Caption>

If you open the `prismic-configuration.js` file, you might notice that the API endpoint has **already been set up according to the repository you created during the installation process**.

Confirm the name of the repository so you can access the Prismic dashboard to manage your content. Move into the Prismic repository that you started earlier, and [create some content](https://user-guides.prismic.io/browse-documents-and-edit-content/editing-content/create-a-new-document) that you will use in your project.

Just a simple blog home page and a couple of posts will do for now, **but you can get as creative as you wish to**.

<Note>
  In this case, you will be using a rich text field that will serve as the body
  of the post, for the sake of simplicity. Normally, the body of a document
  would be a group of{' '}
  <GenericLink href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices">
    Slices
  </GenericLink>{' '}
  to allow more flexibility when creating your posts.
</Note>

## Step 2: Sourcing Your Content From Prismic

With the relevant Prismic dependencies installed, you can start building a page that will serve as a blog index. `/pages/index.js` will have a component that will get the **blog_home** document with `getInitialProps` and render it's Rich Text fields.

```js
import React from 'react'
import Prismic from 'prismic-javascript'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'

const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')

  return { home }
}

export default BlogHome
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file fetching the author
  data from <P.B>blog_home</P.B>.
</Caption>

The `home` prop now contains the [document object](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/the-document-object) received from the API, including the data fields you set earlier for the blog author's image, title, and short description.

<Note>
  If you run the app now with <InlineCode>yarn dev</InlineCode>, you will see
  this information displayed at{' '}
  <GenericLink href="localhost:3000">
    <InlineCode>localhost:3000</InlineCode>
  </GenericLink>
  .
</Note>

There are many ways to query the API to get the data you require. For now, use a [Predicate](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/query-the-api/query-predicates-reference) to get all the **post** documents you have created and sort them in descending order based on their assigned date.

```js
const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map(post => (
        <li key={post.uid}>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')
  const posts = await client.query(
    Prismic.Predicates.at('document.type', 'post'),
    { orderings: '[my.post.date desc]' }
  )

  return { home, posts }
}

export default BlogHome
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file that displays a list
  of all blog posts.
</Caption>

The `posts` prop contains an array of all the blog posts in your repository, arranged in descending chronological order. The **title** field of each item is rendered in an unordered list.

**That's it for a minimalist blog home page**. Let's move on to rendering the pages for each of your blog posts.

## Step 3: Rendering Dynamic Posts

To create a page for each blog post document, you will set it up so that the page is generated dynamically using the unique individual slug (UID) that identifies each **post** document.

This approach is very similar to that used with the home page, but the API query in `getInitialProps` will instead fetch the document depending on its UID.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'
import Link from 'next/link'

const Post = props => (
  <div>
    <Link href="/">
      <a>back to blog list</a>
    </Link>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.title)}
    <span>{Date(props.post.data.date).toString()}</span>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.post_body)}
  </div>
)

Post.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const { uid } = context.query
  const post = await client.getByUID('post', uid)

  return { post }
}

export default Post
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/post.js</InlineCode> file that generates pages
  depending on the <P.B>UID</P.B> provided by the context.
</Caption>

Your blog posts are rendered, but there's no way to test them out since there's no easy way to navigate to each one currently. For that, you'll have to setup the [custom routing](/docs/v2/deployments/routes/) in `now.json` with serverless in mind.

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "next.config.js", "use": "@now/next" }],
  "routes": [{ "src": "/blog/(?<uid>[^/]+)$", "dest": "/post?uid=$uid" }]
}
```

<Caption>
  An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file with build and routing
  configuration.
</Caption>

The above [`now.json` file](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/) achieves three things:

- [`version`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#version) ensures you are using the latest [Now 2.0 platform](/docs/v2/platform/overview) version
- [`builds`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#builds) instructs Now to use the [`@now/next`](/docs/v2/deployments/official-builders/next-js-now-next/) [Builder](/docs/v2/deployments/builders/overview/) to build your app
- [`routes`](/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/#routes) routes slug based requests to the correct location with the `id` parameter

With this, you can access each post directly with their **UID slug**. For example, a blog post with the `best-foot-forward` will be accessible in your local environment after you relaunch it with `yarn dev` at the address `http://localhost:3000/blog/best-foot-forward`.

## Step 4: Build Client Side Navigation Links

Now that the pages for your blog post documents are accessible, you can modify the index page so that the list of titles actually links to each of the posts. To do this, it's best to use the [`<Link>`](https://nextjs.org/docs#with-link) component, included with [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/), to provide client-side navigation without a page refresh.

The `<Link>` component requires **two main props for navigation**: `href`, which will be the path used to route to the page, and `as`, which will be the path as rendered in the browser. To aid in creating these two different paths, you can use the `linkResolver` and `hrefResolver` helper functions, defined within `prismic-configuration.js`.

```js
// Manages links to internal Prismic documents
linkResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/blog/${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
},
// Additional helper function for Next/Link components
hrefResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/post?uid=${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
}
```

<Caption>
  Helper functions in the <InlineCode>prismic-configuration.js</InlineCode>{' '}
  file.
</Caption>

These helper functions generate both the aesthetic path with `linkResolver`; and the functional path that will correctly pass the UID with `hrefResolver`.

These will need to be modified along with your project **as your routing expands**, so that they always reflect the routing you have set up in your `now.json` file.

You can adjust the unordered list in `/pages/index.js` so that it wraps a `<Link>` around the title, as well as adding the `Date` value for each of the blog posts.

```diff
+ import { client, linkResolver, hrefResolver } from '../prismic-configuration'
+ import Link from 'next/link'

const BlogHome = (props) => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt='avatar image' />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map((post) => (
        <li key={post.uid}>
-         {RichText.render(post.data.title)}
+         <Link href={hrefResolver(post)} as={linkResolver(post)} passHref prefetch>
+           <a>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</a>
+         </Link>
+         <span>{Date(post.data.date).toString()}</span>
        </li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)
```

<Caption>
  Modifying the <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file to add the blog
  posts link list.
</Caption>

You can now refresh your site at [`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000/) and test out the navigation for your blog. It's quite minimalistic, but you've built it from scratch.

## Step 5: Deploying With Now

So far, you have been using `yarn dev` to develop locally, but what good is a blog if you don't show it off to the world. It's time to deploy it to the Now platform and enjoy your serverless web application.

Edit the `now.json` configuration file to include a project name. This is optional, but it helps to have human-readable addresses when sharing your project with the public.

```json
{
  ...
  "name": "mini-blog",
}
```

<Caption>
  Adding a <InlineCode>name</InlineCode> property to your{' '}
  <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file.
</Caption>

Since the `next.config.js` file is already set-up as targeting for serverless, your project is **ready to be deployed with Now**.

You can run `yarn deploy` to launch the [Now CLI](/download) which will quickly setup and deploy your project online. Once it's done, you can check the generated url.

Your minimalistic blog using Prismic and built with Next.js is now online on Now and **can be shared instantly** using the URL given by the Now CLI.

## Bonus: Serverless Pre-Rendering

For increased performance, you can take advantage of the [Serverless Pre-rendering](https://zeit.co/blog/serverless-pre-rendering) feature to serve your dynamic content with static speeds.

All you need to do is add a couple of lines to your `index.js` and `post.js` files in the `getInitialProps` method.

```js
if (context.res) {
  context.res.setHeader('Cache-Control', 's-maxage=1, stale-while-revalidate')
}
```

<Caption>
  Enabling SPR in your <InlineCode>BlogHome.getInitialProps</InlineCode> and{' '}
  <InlineCode>Post.getInitialProps</InlineCode> functions.
</Caption>

Deploy this new version to Now with `yarn deploy`. You minimal blog is now being served even faster thanks to the [Now Smart CDN](/smart-cdn). You can try adding or modifying content in your Prismic repository and it **will be served instantaneously** on your now public site.

This small guide goes over the basics of setting up a Prismic + Next.js project. You can build much more complex web applications that will be served at blazing fast speeds for users all around the globe by reading the [resources below](#resources).

## Resources

For more information, consult the documentation about working with [Next and Prismic](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/getting-started/prismic-nextjs).

<Card 
  title="Complete Next.js Blog Project" 
  href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/examples/next-js-samples/sample-blog-with-api-based-cms-in-nextjs"
>
  Fully featured example of the blog project that includes previews, slices and more.
</Card>
<Card
  title="Multi-Page Site Project"
  href="https://user-guides.prismic.io/examples/next-js-samples/sample-multi-page-site-with-navigation-in-nextjs"
>
  Another example project for a more complicated site with multiple pages built using slice components.
</Card>
<Card title="Rendering Slices" href="https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/slices">
  Documentation on how to render Slices which will serve as the body of Prismic pages.
</Card>

export default ({ children }) => <Guide meta={meta}>{children}</Guide>
